Hello everyone and welcome to the structured series of hands
on guided projects on data analysis with pandas.
Pandas is a super powerful, fast, flexible and easy to use.
Open source data analysis and manipulation tool.
This guided project is the first of a series of multiple
guided projects essentially it's a learning path that
has been created for you to master data analysis with pandas.
So I highly recommend that you guys take these guided
projects in order.
So a little bit about myself, my name is Ryan Ahmed and I
will be your instructor for this guided project.
I hold the masters of Applied Science and PhD degrees
in Engineering from McMaster University in Ontario Canada.
I love teaching and I've taught over quarter million students
online from over 160 countries.
Please note that this guided project is very practical
and directly applicable to many industries such as banking,
finance and tech industries as well.
So you guys can add this project to your portfolio
of projects which is essential for your next job interview.
So for those of you who are new crime rhyme is an online
platform for hands on projects creation.
It will allow you to learn by doing so on the right hand side,
you should see the recorded videos, you can pause the video
at any time you want.
And on the left hand side you will see rhymes virtual machine
simply, it's a pre configured cloud desktop with all
the software pre installed and ready for you to use.
So you don't have to worry about any installations
or dependency issues.
Just go ahead.
follow along and code with me.
Please note that this project is a beginner level
and it requires just basic python programming knowledge.
Okay, so let's go ahead and get started.
So you guys should be able to see right now our jupiter
notebook entitled Pandas for data analysis and as I mentioned
this is the part one of our learning path to master pandas
for data analysis and I've also included a c s V file
entitled crypto dot c S V.
And that essentially contains our C s V data.
So please go ahead and click on the jupiter notebook and that
should simply open in u tab.
And please note that inside this jupiter notebook, I've
included everything you need.
So I've included here all the different code scripts, all
the different, many challenges and also the solutions
for the many challenges.
So let me walk you through the jupiter notebook.
So basically I divided the first guided project into 10 tasks.
So in test number one we will cover the introduction and also
define the Panda series and what you guys see here is you
should be able to see that all these cells here they look
empty. Right, So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna be coding
these with you guys and I highly recommend that you guys code
along with me and learn by doing and what you guys see as
well is in every single task I've included in many challenge
along the way.
So I'm going to ask you to please pause the video and attempt
to solve the many challenge on your own and then at the end
you can compare your answers to the answer sheet that
have included.
So if you guys scroll to the bottom, you should be able
to see the solution for all the different many challenges, so
many challenges, one solution, many challenge to solution
and so on.
So this basically concludes the task one and then it tasked
to we are we will learn how to define appendices with custom
index and Task number three will define a panda series
from a dictionary and then a task four will learn
about pandas attributes And then we'll cover Pandas methods
in task five.
In Task six will learn how to import CSV.
Data using Pandas And then in task seven we will learn
about Pandas, built in functions In Task eight will learn how
to sort Pandas series And then in task nine we will learn how
to perform math operations on Panda series.
And then finally in task then we will learn how to check kind
of kind of search for a given element within a panda series.
Okay, so let's go ahead and start with task number one.
So as I mentioned in task one, we will learn how to define
a panda series and we just learn the basics or fundamentals
of pandas.
All right, so let's go ahead and get started.
So the first step is, well I wanted to import pandas.
So to import pandas, all what you need to do is that you need
to type here import pandas as P. D.
Basically what we're going to do is that we are going
to within the code instead of referring to pandas library
every time with pandas, I'm just going to use the short name
for it, which is gonna be P. D.
If you press shift and enter that should execute the cell
around the sun.
The next step is I wanted to define a list and within that
list I'm going to include a ticker symbols for all my
favorite cryptocurrencies.
So I'm going to say, well crypto _ List Equals two.
You guys can call the list anything you want.
And if you guys remember from basic python programming
fundamentals to the finalist, you need to write a square
bracket and then you specify the elements within the list.
So I'm going to say well btc, which is the ticker symbol
essentially for Bitcoin and then I'm going to add ripple that
will be X. R. P.
And the next one will be light coin will be ltc and then
I'm going to add as well another two of my favorite coins
and this will be A D.
A. Or cardin.
Oh and then the last one will be a Syrian or e th and then
if you guys wanted to see what's in crypto lists, you press
tab and that should auto complete for you.
And then if you press shift and enter right now, here we go,
you guys should be able to see the list that you just defined,
including the five top cryptocurrencies of your choice.
If you guys wanted to go ahead and check out the type
or the data type of my crypto list, I can say, could you
please show me the type of my crypto list?
And if you press shift and enter, here we go, you guys
should be able to see the data type is a list which makes
complete sense.
Please make sure that so far we actually haven't done
any pandas yet, although we have done so far is we defined
a list and we call that list simply crypt to underscore list.
The next step that I wanted to show you guys is how to create
a one dimensional panda series and basically think
of a series as just one dimensional pandas object
and we're going to show you guys that, you know,
over the next couple of guided projects is that we're going
to take it to the next level.
And instead of defining one D series, I'm going to define
multiple dimension, we call it data frame.
But right now we're just getting started.
So we're just going to be dealing with one dimensional data
for now.
So we're going to do is they are going to use what we call it.
The pandas constructive method to create a series or a panda
series from a python list.
So let me show you.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to say, well this is my
first pandas series.
So I'm gonna say crypto underscore series again.
You guys can call it anything you want really.
And in order to create a panda series from a python list.
All what you need to do is that you need to say P. D.
Which is stands for pandas dot and you're going to use
serious constructive method to do that for me.
Please note that the S here is upper case.
You're gonna say Syria's, you're open parentheses and then
you need to specify what type of data that you want.
Well the data is going to be well my crypto and the school
list and this is simply the hoops.
This is simply the list that I have in here that have defined
earlier in um in sulfur here, if you guys recalled okay.
And if you guys wanted to check out what's encrypt too series
right now underscore Syria's.
If you press shift, enter here we go, congratulations.
Now you guys have been able to create your first pandas
series and we called it crypto series.
Please note that this is simply a one dimensional um pandas
series.
And what you guys notice as well is that there has been
a default numeric and disease that has been added in here.
And please note as well that you know when it comes to pandas
or python in general we appreciate the number zero.
Like you will notice that the indices here starts from index
zero and it goes 01234 and so on.
So if you have five elements, the indices will start
from zero up until four.
Okay. All right.
The next step is well let's go ahead and confirm the data
type for my first panda series.
So if you say type, please show me the type of my crypto
series she can enter.
You guys should be able to see that the data type here.
It's pandas the core series, the series and that's great.
That's actually confirmed what we have been discussing so far.
The next point that I wanted to show you guys before we stop
at many challenge number one is well, what if I wanted
to define a panda series that contains numeric values, let's
say crypto prices instead of let's say text data.
So what you guys see here is we have been able to define our
pandas series here but we only include the tax data right?
Which is the data data type object.
And what I could do as well as well.
I can go ahead and define another pandas series
but it contained maybe a bunch of numbers, bunch of numeric
values.
So let me show you how to define that.
So I'm going to say crypto underscore crisis underscored
Syria's equals two.
I'm going to also use pandas constructive methods are gonna
say pd dot please make sure that s is upper case.
So I'm gonna say PV dot series.
You open parentheses and you need to specify what's the data
look like.
So what you can do is that you can either define a list,
a python list beforehand or you can well provided right away
in one shot.
So within the square bracket I can go ahead and define bunch
of numbers may be the first price is 2000.
The next one is 500.
The next one is 2000 And then the next one is let's say
20 and then finally let's say have 50 for example and I
can go ahead and show my crypto prices serious.
So I can say crypto prices series, you just shift and enter
here we go.
You guys should be able to see right now is I have been able
to create a pandas series Containing just bunch of numbers
and what you guys see as well as the data type of all
the elements within my panda series is in 64 or into your
64 which makes sense because here I defined essentially
a bunch of numbers that are stored in 64 bits in memory.
Okay, all right, so that's all I have for this task
but before we conclude and as always in all these guided
projects, I try to include a mini challenge in pretty much
every single task.
So now it's time for many challenge.
Number one I want you guys to define a panda series.
I'm going to call it my series and this will essentially
contain your top three favorite stocks.
I want you guys to confirm the data type of my series as well.
So please go ahead, give it a shot, pause the video
and I'll see you guys after the challenge.
Alright, hope you guys were able to figure out the challenge.
What I asked you guys to do is to define a panda cedars
That contains your top three favorite stocks.
So what you could do is that you can define a list first I
can say let's say my list equals two.
You open square brackets and then you list all the elements
in there.
For example, I have let's say facebook.
The next one will be let's say Apple.
The third one will be let's say in video.
For example you guys can go ahead and select any stocks
you want.
So please know that what we have done so far here is only
we define a python list.
This is a generic list.
We haven't touched pandas at all yet.
Well let's go ahead and create a panda series from my python.
This to do that.
I'm going to say my Okay, my underscored series.
You quit too.
I'm going to say pd dot series.
I'm going to use the pandas dot serious constructive method.
I need to specify the data, like how I'm going to create that
series.
I need to create it from something.
Right? So I'm going to pass along the my list that I have
in here.
I'm just gonna pass it as is I can say my underscore list
and then finally all I need to do is I need to show my list
to make sure it actually works.
My serious apologies.
And if you press shift and enter right now, here we go.
You guys have been able to successfully create a pandas
series.
I called it my series that contains the names of your
three favorite stocks.
What I asked you guys to do as well is I ask you to confirm
the data type of my series.
Well to do that.
What I wanted to show you guys is how to insert a new cell.
So to insert a new cell, you just go ahead on your keyboard
and press a so if you press a you guys will see the new cell
has been created and to check out with the data type, you can
just say type and you can pass along my underscore series.
People shift enter.
Here we go.
You will find the data type is Pandas, the core, the series,
the series and it makes sense.
And that's exactly what we are expecting.
All right, okay.
So that's all I have for task number one.
I hope you guys enjoyed it.
And task number two.
Let's go ahead and define a Panda series with custom index
instead.
So please stay tuned.
Best of luck, and I will see you guys in the next desk.